README.md, before:

  
  


<a  name="readme-top"  id="readme-top"></a>

  

  
  

  

<h3  align="center">MED DATA HUB</h3>

  

  

<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->

  

## About The Project

  

  
  
  

  

The application is realized as final test to conclude the  Start2Impact Backend Development Master.

  

  

The requisites for the development of the app: 
  

* The app must implement RESTful APIs
* JWT Authentication

### Background
The app was designed to solve a real life issue of the company I'm currently working at.
The first goal is to have a platform to access all released production documents and store them in a secure web platform that does not allow users to directly modify them.
The app shall also allow navigation of previous revisions of the documents and filter on different parameters.
The other scope of this app is to allow easy Data Management of the products.
The information are categorized into four tables: Components, Products, Materials and Suppliers.
Each table has a dashboard to filter elements based on the relevant parameters of the object.
Two additional tables are added: Bill of Materials and Configurations.
Configuration is an abstraction constructed to allow components to have multiple suppliers and materials at the same time.
The app integrates JWT authentication and different roles of the accounts: simple user with read-only capability and superuser with read&write rights.
The app will be released in different stages given the urgency.
First release to solve the issue of the documents navigation.
Second release to implement also product data management (current)
Third release to add advanced functionalities such as query of products containing specific materials and multilevel explosion of products (products can be made out of assemblies that have their own subassemblies) and provide an automatic way of retrieving data relevant for MDR Material Compliance Regulation that is only accessible at the moment through manual and time-consuming search.
  
  
  

  
  
  

  



  

  

### Built With

  
![HTML LOGO](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=HTML5&logoColor=FFF)

![CSS LOGO](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=CSS3)

![BOOTSTRAP LOGO](https://img.shields.io/badge/BOOTSTRAP-7952B3?style=for-the-badge&logo=Bootstrap&logoColor=FFF)


![JAVASCRIPT LOGO](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-Script-F7DF1E?style=for-the-badge&logo=Javascript)

![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/mysql-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)

  

![100% ](https://img.shields.io/badge/-JAVA-violet?style=for-the-badge)

  
  ![SPRING BOOT LOGO](https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring-BOOT-6DB33F?style=for-the-badge&logo=Spring-Boot&logoColor=FFF)
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  

  

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

  

## Getting Started

  

  

  
  

  

### Installation

First you need to have Java installed, for this app you will need [JDK 17].(https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/jdk17-archive-downloads.html)


You will also need to create a MySQL database and have a software installed to host it locally.
I personally use XAMPP, that you can  [download  here.](https://www.apachefriends.org/download)
Once you have it installed, you can run the application by clicking START on the Apache and MySQL modules.

  ![XAMPP SCREEN](https://i.postimg.cc/zfDb5csn/xampp.png)

I have created a sql file in the Setup Folder that you can copy-paste to create and populate the database with some trial data.
Then you need to set up the right properties of the app.
Extract the folder MedDataHub and save it inside C:/Program Files/
Inside the folder you will find example documents and the application.properties file.
Open this file and insert the right credentials to access your database (url, username, password) and the SMTP credentials of the mail you want to use to send verification codes.
I have used a GMAIL account so if you have one too you can just change the email and password (you can generate a password specific for the application from [Google Settings](https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords).
In the Setup folder you will als find a pre-built JAR file, that you can execute from CMD:

```xml

java -jar Java-Information.jar

```

  

<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->

You're good to go! You can now access the app on the browser from [this URL](http://localhost:8080/app/).

You can create a new user on signup but the ROLE will be automatically set to USER (read-only).
 If you want full rights you can login with 'admin@gmail.com' and password 'admin' or you can create a new user and set the Role to 2 directly from the database (SUPERUSER).



## Edit the Project
If you want to make modifications to the app, you are free to do it by downloading the source code.


### Building
##### Build with IDE
To compile and run the application I personally use an IDE for simplicity, specifically  [IntelliJ IDEA.](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/?section=windows)
To import a Maven project from IntelliJ you can follow [this detailed guide.](https://www.jetbrains.com/guide/java/tutorials/working-with-maven/importing-a-project/)
To create the JAR file from within the project,
```xml
File > Project Structure>Artifacts > Add a new one (+)
```
```xml
JAR > From modules with dependencies
```
```xml
Select the Main class as entry point for the app and Apply
```
Now go to 
```xml
File > Build > Build Artifacts... > Build
```
And the JAR file will be exported in the selected folder. 🎉
Now to launch the app, open a terminal within the Jar folder and type:
```xml
java -jar YOURJARNAME.jar
```
Note: change to your actual jar file name.
#### Build from command line
If you want to build from command line, first make sure you have [Maven installeed.](https://maven.apache.org/install.html)
Now open the the folder of the project with the terminal.
Type:
```xml
mvn package
```

The JAR file will be generated inside the **target/** folder.
You can change the destination by changing the filename and directory inside the build tag in the pom.xml
```xml
<build>

<directory>out</directory>

<finalName>Med-Data-Hub</finalName>

</build>
```
Now simply open a terminal and run:
```xml
java -jar YOURJARNAME.jar
```



## Contributing

  

  

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

  

  

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".

  

Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

  

  

1. Fork the Project

  

2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)

  

3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)

  

4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)

  

5. Open a Pull Request

  

  
  
  

  
  
  

  

<!-- CONTACT -->

  

## Contact

  

  

Enrico Bergamini - enricobergamini@outlook.it

  

[![LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url]

  

  

<p  align="right">(<a  href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

  
  

  
  

<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->

  

<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->

  

[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=for-the-badge

  

[contributors-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/graphs/contributors

  

[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=for-the-badge

  

[forks-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/network/members

  

[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=for-the-badge

  

[stars-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/stargazers

  

[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=for-the-badge

[HTML-url]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=whit

[issues-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/issues

  

[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=for-the-badge

  

[license-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/blob/master/LICENSE.txt

  

[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555

  

[linkedin-url]: https://linkedin.com/in/enrico-bergamini

  

[product-screenshot]: images/screenshot.png

  

[Next.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/next.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=nextdotjs&logoColor=white

  

[Next-url]: https://nextjs.org/

  

[React.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB

  

[React-url]: https://reactjs.org/

  

[Vue.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Vue.js-35495E?style=for-the-badge&logo=vuedotjs&logoColor=4FC08D

  

[Vue-url]: https://vuejs.org/

  

[Angular.io]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Angular-DD0031?style=for-the-badge&logo=angular&logoColor=white

  

[Angular-url]: https://angular.io/

  

[Svelte.dev]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Svelte-4A4A55?style=for-the-badge&logo=svelte&logoColor=FF3E00

  

[Svelte-url]: https://svelte.dev/

  

[Laravel.com]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Laravel-FF2D20?style=for-the-badge&logo=laravel&logoColor=white

  

[Laravel-url]: https://laravel.com

  

[Bootstrap.com]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-563D7C?style=for-the-badge&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white

  

[Bootstrap-url]: https://getbootstrap.com

  

[JQuery.com]: https://img.shields.io/badge/jQuery-0769AD?style=for-the-badge&logo=jquery&logoColor=white

  

[JQuery-url]: https://jquery.com

[CSS-url]: https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=whit

[JAVASCRIPT-url]: https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-F7DF1E?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=black

Commit message:

Moved the Zip archive to Google Drive due to GitHub's size limit

README.md, after:

  
  


<a  name="readme-top"  id="readme-top"></a>

  

  
  

  

<h3  align="center">MED DATA HUB</h3>

  

  

<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->

  

## About The Project

  

  
  
  

  

The application is realized as final test to conclude the  Start2Impact Backend Development Master.

  

  

The requisites for the development of the app: 
  

* The app must implement RESTful APIs
* JWT Authentication

### Background
The app was designed to solve a real life issue of the company I'm currently working at.
The first goal is to have a platform to access all released production documents and store them in a secure web platform that does not allow users to directly modify them.
The app shall also allow navigation of previous revisions of the documents and filter on different parameters.
The other scope of this app is to allow easy Data Management of the products.
The information are categorized into four tables: Components, Products, Materials and Suppliers.
Each table has a dashboard to filter elements based on the relevant parameters of the object.
Two additional tables are added: Bill of Materials and Configurations.
Configuration is an abstraction constructed to allow components to have multiple suppliers and materials at the same time.
The app integrates JWT authentication and different roles of the accounts: simple user with read-only capability and superuser with read&write rights.
The app will be released in different stages given the urgency.
First release to solve the issue of the documents navigation.
Second release to implement also product data management (current)
Third release to add advanced functionalities such as query of products containing specific materials and multilevel explosion of products (products can be made out of assemblies that have their own subassemblies) and provide an automatic way of retrieving data relevant for MDR Material Compliance Regulation that is only accessible at the moment through manual and time-consuming search.
On final release the frontend part of the insert queries will be revisited to be more user-friendly.
A user interface to modify inserted data will be added as well.
  
  
  

  
  
  

  



  

  

### Built With

  
![HTML LOGO](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=HTML5&logoColor=FFF)

![CSS LOGO](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=CSS3)

![BOOTSTRAP LOGO](https://img.shields.io/badge/BOOTSTRAP-7952B3?style=for-the-badge&logo=Bootstrap&logoColor=FFF)


![JAVASCRIPT LOGO](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-Script-F7DF1E?style=for-the-badge&logo=Javascript)

![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/mysql-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)

  

![100% ](https://img.shields.io/badge/-JAVA-violet?style=for-the-badge)

  
  ![SPRING BOOT LOGO](https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring-BOOT-6DB33F?style=for-the-badge&logo=Spring-Boot&logoColor=FFF)
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  

  

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

  

## Getting Started

  

  

  
  

  

### Installation

First you need to have Java installed, for this app you will need [JDK 17].(https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/jdk17-archive-downloads.html)


You will also need to create a MySQL database and have a software installed to host it locally.
I personally use XAMPP, that you can  [download  here.](https://www.apachefriends.org/download)
Once you have it installed, you can run the application by clicking START on the Apache and MySQL modules.

  ![XAMPP SCREEN](https://i.postimg.cc/zfDb5csn/xampp.png)

Download this archive from [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13zKDxiXtFuOSTavu7llxqL5v3cl2WXGs/view?usp=sharing)
I have created a sql file in the Setup Folder that you can copy-paste to create and populate the database with some demo data.
Then you need to set up the right properties of the app.
Extract the folder MedDataHub and save it inside C:/Program Files/
Inside the folder you will find example documents and the application.properties file.
Open this file and insert the right credentials to access your database (url, username, password) and the SMTP credentials of the mail you want to use to send verification codes.
I have used a GMAIL account so if you have one too you can just change the email and password (you can generate a password specific for the application from [Google Settings](https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords).
In the Setup folder you will als find a pre-built JAR file, that you can execute from CMD:

```xml

java -jar Java-Information.jar

```

  

<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->

You're good to go! You can now access the app on the browser from [this URL](http://localhost:8080/app/).

You can create a new user on signup but the ROLE will be automatically set to USER (read-only).
 If you want full rights you can login with 'admin@gmail.com' and password 'admin' or you can create a new user and set the Role to 2 directly from the database (SUPERUSER).



## Edit the Project
If you want to make modifications to the app, you are free to do it by downloading the source code.


### Building
##### Build with IDE
To compile and run the application I personally use an IDE for simplicity, specifically  [IntelliJ IDEA.](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/?section=windows)
To import a Maven project from IntelliJ you can follow [this detailed guide.](https://www.jetbrains.com/guide/java/tutorials/working-with-maven/importing-a-project/)
To create the JAR file from within the project,
```xml
File > Project Structure>Artifacts > Add a new one (+)
```
```xml
JAR > From modules with dependencies
```
```xml
Select the Main class as entry point for the app and Apply
```
Now go to 
```xml
File > Build > Build Artifacts... > Build
```
And the JAR file will be exported in the selected folder. 🎉
Now to launch the app, open a terminal within the Jar folder and type:
```xml
java -jar YOURJARNAME.jar
```
Note: change to your actual jar file name.
#### Build from command line
If you want to build from command line, first make sure you have [Maven installeed.](https://maven.apache.org/install.html)
Now open the the folder of the project with the terminal.
Type:
```xml
mvn package
```

The JAR file will be generated inside the **target/** folder.
You can change the destination by changing the filename and directory inside the build tag in the pom.xml
```xml
<build>

<directory>out</directory>

<finalName>Med-Data-Hub</finalName>

</build>
```
Now simply open a terminal and run:
```xml
java -jar YOURJARNAME.jar
```



## Contributing

  

  

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

  

  

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".

  

Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

  

  

1. Fork the Project

  

2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)

  

3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)

  

4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)

  

5. Open a Pull Request

  

  
  
  

  
  
  

  

<!-- CONTACT -->

  

## Contact

  

  

Enrico Bergamini - enricobergamini@outlook.it

  

[![LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url]

  

  

<p  align="right">(<a  href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

  
  

  
  

<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->

  

<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->

  

[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=for-the-badge

  

[contributors-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/graphs/contributors

  

[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=for-the-badge

  

[forks-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/network/members

  

[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=for-the-badge

  

[stars-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/stargazers

  

[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=for-the-badge

[HTML-url]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=whit

[issues-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/issues

  

[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/othneildrew/Best-README-Template.svg?style=for-the-badge

  

[license-url]: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/blob/master/LICENSE.txt

  

[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555

  

[linkedin-url]: https://linkedin.com/in/enrico-bergamini

  

[product-screenshot]: images/screenshot.png

  

[Next.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/next.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=nextdotjs&logoColor=white

  

[Next-url]: https://nextjs.org/

  

[React.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB

  

[React-url]: https://reactjs.org/

  

[Vue.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Vue.js-35495E?style=for-the-badge&logo=vuedotjs&logoColor=4FC08D

  

[Vue-url]: https://vuejs.org/

  

[Angular.io]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Angular-DD0031?style=for-the-badge&logo=angular&logoColor=white

  

[Angular-url]: https://angular.io/

  

[Svelte.dev]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Svelte-4A4A55?style=for-the-badge&logo=svelte&logoColor=FF3E00

  

[Svelte-url]: https://svelte.dev/

  

[Laravel.com]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Laravel-FF2D20?style=for-the-badge&logo=laravel&logoColor=white

  

[Laravel-url]: https://laravel.com

  

[Bootstrap.com]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-563D7C?style=for-the-badge&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white

  

[Bootstrap-url]: https://getbootstrap.com

  

[JQuery.com]: https://img.shields.io/badge/jQuery-0769AD?style=for-the-badge&logo=jquery&logoColor=white

  

[JQuery-url]: https://jquery.com

[CSS-url]: https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=whit

[JAVASCRIPT-url]: https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-F7DF1E?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=black
